---
layout: article
title: "Surrey BLDC at IVDC 2011"
---
The tale of a beginner's first foray into the world of dancing on the university competition circuit, as told by Roo Kirk.

I think it's fair to say that the entire team felt an interesting mix of nerves, excitement and anticipation for this year's IVDA (Inter Varsity Dance Association) competition in Blackpool. In the few days leading up to the competition there are many preparations to be made, from deciding how daring to be with the darkness of a spray tan to hunting Guildford's high street for a skirt that fits, you can never be too prepared. But on Friday afternoon the time came to grab a seat on the minibus and set off on the long drive to Blackpool, each of us praying we had everything we needed.

One of the most challenging parts of the competition was dragging ourselves from our warm, comfortable beds at 6am to paste our faces with make up and gel our hair firmly to our scalps. Luckily we had just enough time to enjoy a full cooked breakfast to give us plenty of energy for the long, long day ahead, that was for those who could manage it. Some of us, myself included, opted for simple toast as my stomach was so full enough of butterflies I doubt sausage and egg would have fitted. The walk to the Winter Gardens from our hotel was not a long one, however when you are carrying your own weight in food and your own weight again in make up, it can feel like a mammoth trek. However, it is more than worth it. From the moment we stepped into the Empress Ballroom I think we were all infected by the excitable energy running through the air.

I know that for a moment I lost all my nerves, all I felt was excitement and an urge to rush onto the floor and dance! The day started with a chance to have a quick whirl around the floor to warm up and then the competitions began. The dazzling dresses were accompanied by some spectacular dancing. There was some really tough competition and most importantly every dancer performed with a beaming smile on their face. Many dancers had not stepped into a dance shoe until arriving at University only a few months ago, yet everyone went out there dancing with so much passion and enthusiasm that whether you are a competitor or spectator you cannot help but smile with them.

In addition to the competitions there were demonstrations from some of the country's best dancers, which were both entertaining and inspiring to watch. I think every mouth in the room gaped as we watched the acrobatic rock and roll dancer be flung like a scarf around her partner's neck before being whirled back to the ground. After a long tough day of dancing there is the disco to look forward to. Now I'm not sure how many people can say they have done a conga that's several hundred people long, but I can. There is nothing more uplifting than goodness knows how many people, shattered from dancing, all grabbing each other by the shoulders and parading around the Empress Ballroom floor. Now that really is dancing at its best.

I think it is safe to say we all felt so proud and lucky to be part of this event. We all had a great time and owe a lot of Thank-You's to the committee and to Vicki and Fred for their support and teaching. I know I certainly can't wait until next year!